DNS'25 feedback (#11)
toasterbag/data101: src/beginner/cli/powershell.md

Reviewer: Where is?

Author: Är nu omskrivet lite och tillagt i slutet av CLI kapitlet. Osäker på om man vill gå igenom det mer genomgående eftersom folk är nya till det eller om det funkar så här

each drive has their own root, and each drive gets a one letter identifier. To
indicate which drive we are talking about in absolute paths, we prefix the path
with the drives letter followed by `:/` and then the rest of the path. Your
main drive will usually have `C` as its identifier. An example of an absolute
path would be `C:/Users`.

PowerShell has its own version of all commands we have covered, but most of
them have aliases that match the names in Unix shells. There are however slight
differences in their behaviour, so read through their help pages to understand
all of the details. To get access the help pages, use `help <command>`, or
`help <command> -Online` if the first page is incomplete which happens at
times. You might need to press !kbd[Enter] a few times to see all of the help
screen. Here you might also notice that PowerShell use just uses one `-`
instead of `--`. There are also only longform options.

The following is a listing of the PowerShell equivalents for the commands we
covered earlier. Note that they only operate on single files, compared to Unix
shells where they operate on multiple.

> | PowerShell Command                          | Unix like aliases                    | Description                                                              |
> |---------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | `Get-Content <file>`                        | `cat <file>`                         | Print the contents of the `<file>`                                       |
> | `Set-Location <path>`                       | `cd <path>`                          | Changes your working directory to `<path>`                               |
> | `Copy-Item <source> <destination>`          | `cp -Recurse <source> <destination>` | Copies directories and their contents from `<source`> to `<destination>` |
> | `Copy-Item -Recruse <source> <destination>` | `cp <source> <destination>`          | Copies files from `<source`> to `<destination>`                          |
> | `Get-ChildItem <path>`                      | `ls <path>`                          | Lists the files in `<path>`                                              |
> | `Get-ChildItem`                             | `ls`                                 | Lists the files in the working directory                                 |
> | `New-Item -ItemType directory <directory>`  | `mkdir <directory>`                  | Create the `<directory>`                                                 |
> | `Move-Item <source> <destination>`          | `mv <source> <destination>`          | Moves files or directories from `<source>` to `<destination>`            |
> | `Remove-Item <path>`                        | `rm <path>`                          | Removes the content at `<path>` and any potential child items            |
> | `New-Item <file>`                           |                                      | Creates the `<file>`                                                     |
> | `Get-Help <command>`                        |                                      | Prints the help page for `<command>`                                     |
> | `Get-Help <command> -Online`                |                                      | Opens the help page for `<command>` in a webbrowser                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| PowerShell Command                          | Unix like aliases                       | Description                                                              |
|---------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Get-Content <file>`                        | `cat <file>`                            | Print the contents of the `<file>`                                       |
| `Set-Location <path>`                       | `cd <path>`                             | Changes your working directory to `<path>`                               |
| `Copy-Item <source> <destination>`          | `cp <source> <destination>`             | Copies files from `<source`> to `<destination>`                          |
| `Copy-Item -Recruse <source> <destination>` | `cp --recursive <source> <destination>` | Copies directories and their contents from `<source`> to `<destination>` |
| `Get-ChildItem <path>`                      | `ls <path>`                             | Lists the files in `<path>`                                              |
| `Get-ChildItem`                             | `ls`                                    | Lists the files in the working directory                                 |
| `Move-Item <source> <destination>`          | `mv <source> <destination>`             | Moves files or directories from `<source>` to `<destination>`            |
| `Remove-Item <path>`                        | `rm <path>`                             | Removes the content at `<path>` and any potential child items            |
| `New-Item <file>`                           | `touch <file>`                          | Creates the `<file>`                                                     |
| `New-Item -ItemType directory <directory>`  | `mkdir <directory>`                     | Create the `<directory>`                                                 |
| `Get-Help <command>`                        | `man <command>                          | Prints the help page for `<command>`                                     |
| `Get-Help <command> -Online`                |                                         | Opens the help page for `<command>` in a browser                         |
```

Author: Vi har tolkat tabellhuvudet olika ser jag. Tanken va att PowerShell aliasar många av sina kommandon till unix versionen, så jag ville ha med hur det ser ut när man använder de aliasen. Det kanske blir förvirrande och att det ät bättre att skriva ut kommandona som vi visade dem tidigare i boken.

Author: Bra dock att ha dem i samma ordning som i den andra tabellen.

Reviewer: Men även med det så blir det fel med `-Recurse` delen. Jag tycker det är mer lärorikt att jämföra med de tidigare introducerade kommandona

Author: Ja det blir bättre att jämföra med de tidigare kommandona
